# CONCLUSION

Throughout recorded history, humans have held sway over the world in a position of dominance. However, we now have a rival that can imitate our mental processes. 4IR growth astounds the realm of human thought. Deep machine learning may help us reach supremacy and improve our decision-making process. This high-quality human challenge capacity is the foundation of the fourth industrial revolution. On the other hand, 4IR has opened up a slew of many new possibilities. AI, IoT, and other new materials, as well as the protagonists of the fourth industrial revolution, have been producing unexpected functionalities. The capacity to undertake new and increasingly sophisticated operations, even concurrently, distinguishes these intelligent materials. Furthermore, the 4IR technologies are based on the notion of Ambient Intelligence, which is the situation of people interacting with digital systems and an ideal instrument for gathering and analyzing large volumes of data. Also, these technologies are meant to assist in management of complex systems' maintenance, training, control, and monitoring. They're also important in nanomedicine, agriculture, transportation, and education, among other fields. As a result, it seems clear that the technological revolution will accelerate in the following decades, putting humanity to the most difficult test it has ever faced. Changes have already begun, and whoever gains an advantage in this field will rule the future world.

Bangladesh, as a rapidly developing nation, must plan for the future. From a Bangladeshi viewpoint, this paper is nothing more than a broad reflection on the fourth industrial revolution, how these changes will affect the future, and how we might be prepared for the difficulties ahead. Bangladesh's problems began from the very beginning of society, with a proper understanding and knowledge of the issue. The majority of academics are not keeping up with the developments in industry. As a consequence, the whole manufacturing and distribution industry is now lagging behind in terms of technological proficiency. Furter's misperceptions and misleading explanations of technical growth will caused by a lack of understanding in the society. Also, Bangladeshi society has already practiced various version of 4IR technologies without identifying them which is ultimately created a blind flowing community. A nation's progress is influenced not just by structural factors, but also by societal acceptability. In Bangladesh, the majority of the population had a huge misconception regarding 4IR, which hindered the development progress. Sectors like RMG and SMEs must increase and apply as many 4IR-based technique as much as possible. Bangladeshi authorities, on the other hand, have already begun to mold this sector holistically, connecting all options and achieving a solid position in future. Bangladesh's government has already made a favorable and significant remark on AI, IoT, Blockchain, and Robotics by completing many comprehensive national measuring documents. This optimistic attitude will undoubtedly aid future growth in these sectors. Simultaneously, the scientific revolution in the technology sphere is accelerating, and now spread to a variety of fields. The thesis also attempts to show how 4IR has a little influence on almost all the sectors. Another feature of this research is that it distinguishes the 4IR component and emphasizes the need of "understanding the distinctions," since we can only accomplish our maximum when we understand what we're up against. So, before we can find a remedy, we must first understand the issue. A descriptive and hypnotical explanation of significant 4IR components relevant to Bangladesh is also included in this paper. In addition, the study looks for common ground and additional scholarly research on this topic. The thesis highlighted numerous areas or elements of 4IR and attempted to explain the dimensions, and proposed a number of reform measures. The study discusses the repercussions and implications of several sectors, including the ecological, social, individual, and agricultural aspects. The paper also included many assumptions and recommendations for further research on the personal and psychological consequences of 4IR in the Bangladeshi community.

For a long time, the Bangladeshi people have been subjected to a great deal of injustice and exploitation. Whoever controlled this area sought a piece of the pie and exploited Bangladesh in every way? However, we are now confronted with yet another colonial-controlled issue: the problem of massive gadget dependability. The 4IR began to build a western-controlled area with modern technology; nonetheless, the 4IR's beauty lies in its flexibility and evaluative capacity. Because of its creative character, controlling 4IR is practically difficult. As a result, we got the opportunity to further our innovative reforms and achieve growth by eradicating all the dependency. The paper shows a chance perhaps the path of a self-depending Bangladesh. The current industrial revolution is inescapable, yet it is very contagious at the same time. We don't have the luxury of avoiding the situation. So, the only option is to adapt to the changes and provide an ethical, physical, and intellectual foundation for future imagined changes.
