## STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM

Throughout its vast history, human civilization has taken tremendous steps forward. However, until the industrial revolution revealed its potential, this progress did not appear hopeful. Massive manufacturing lines' dynamic rise opened up a new realm of possibilities. To overcome societal challenges and master human afflictions, the Industrial Revolution established a position of mass production. Humans have been slowly hibernating for thousands of years, relying on natural selection. However, technological advancements have created an unprecedented situation in every profession. From the battlefield to the warehouse, technology is the true game-changer. The industrial revolution paved the way for innovative thinking and the creation of our future.

The human world has now witnessed the realization of the ideal of choosing our happiness. The previous two hundred years of human history have shown us the pinnacle of technical progress and have helped to alleviate innumerable human miseries. The fourth industrial revolution is the most recent manifestation of the previous three. Bangladesh is a young country with a population of 160 million people. This country's present economy is rapidly expanding. Extra work and new technology are required to maintain global economic growth. Bangladesh is likewise pursuing total achievement in new technology. Even the present administration is committed to creating a "Digital Bangladesh." The Bangladeshi economy is already being influenced by harmonizing new premium sophisticated technologies in society and the economy. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the implications of the fourth industrial revolution's drivers in Bangladesh and the repercussions and problems of the fourth industrial revolution. The value of keeping up with all new technology developments is immeasurable.

The success of a country's industrial revolution now determines its future. Bangladesh plans to achieve its long-awaited goal of becoming a prosperous country by 2041. The essential measures in accomplishing such a goal are to get all of the newest technical advancements and to ensure healthy economic growth. The key to these achievements is the fourth industrial revolution. It's critical to figure out what the fourth industrial regulations mean in practice. We will not be able to adequately plan for the future if we do not identify the effects of current technological growth. The sooner a country recognizes the significance of the fourth industrial revolution, the better equipped it will be to endure the approaching algorithmic era. Bangladesh, as a third-world developing country, needs these adjustments and developments. We've already fallen behind on the road to excellence, but it's not too late to get started. This study provides a detailed picture of Bangladesh's present state of the fourth industrial revolution and the effects of revolutionary ideas. Furthermore, the article discusses the disadvantages and potential solutions for developing a welcoming atmosphere to increase the fourth industrial revolution's good benefits.
