## 2.3 HISTORY OF INDUSTRIALIZATIONS

The steam engine, spinning wheel, and water wheel were the first notable innovations in economics. In addition, new textile and transportation system technologies increase the whole manufacturing line's capability. For the first time in human history, people were able to break free from their reliance on farming and handicrafts. There was a significant investment in industries like as mining, textiles, glass, architecture, and agriculture. Industrialization did not, however, spread to every corner of the globe. As a result of the first industrial revolution, the UK and other European countries reaped the benefits. There were several modifications throughout the course of many years. Consolidation of European social order led to colonization from around 1760 until about 1850<sup>[\[2\]](#footnote-2)</sup>. It required raw materials and personnel that were unavailable in Europe for the large manufacturing line. It was thus necessary for them to expand their global reach by annexing many countries. Working-class suffering was yet another unpleasant aspect of the first industrial revolution. Until 1833, there were no work schedules or regulations in place, and people lived in abject poverty as a result of the soaring demand for commodities<sup>[\[3\]](#footnote-3)</sup>. The differing surroundings were enough to separate the civilization into its several factions. A major factor in the development of an elite corporate society was the impact of the Industrial Revolution. Another avenue for the next industrial revolution is opened by factory actions and expanding needs. The second industrial revolution was built on a foundation of communication and mobility. Some of human history's most ground-breaking events occurred during this age of revolutionary transformation. The Second Industrial Revolution (the 2<sup>nd</sup> IR) lasted from the late 1800s to the 1960s, and it had a profound impact on the course of human history. Ordinary things became more affordable thanks to advancements in technology and the introduction of electricity, as well as exploration of the potential of petroleum. During this period, these inventions have decreased the amount of time spent working. At that period, businesses were nimbler and more productive. The boost in productivity and cost-effectiveness led to a dramatic increase in the manufacture of military equipment. Improved mechanization led directly to the catastrophic First and Second World Wars. Increased production of daily commodities and military equipment were both boosted by the advent of assembly lines. The second industrial revolution also saw considerable advancements in the transportation industry. Aeronautical advancements made possible by the railroad's rapid expansion paved the way for new forms of commerce and manufacturing. The time-consuming phenomena was decreased via transportation, resulting in a tremendous output rate. As a result of these revolutionary shifts, several corporations began automating their assembly lines, which resulted in a significant increase in unemployment. Revolutionary change on the other hand, omitted the existing variables and brought in new ones. Recent social changes have become more necessary because of the conclusion of the Second World War and the creation of a global market and communicative economic policies. A new world necessitates an upgrade in socioeconomic adjustments in the global system. There were several ways to create new settings at the time. This new wave of economic independence was beginning to take hold across the nation. Industrialization's third revolution infiltrated the social system in a complicated fashion, dividing the global system into two distinct blocks and ideologies. Consequently, industrialization suffered as well. Innovations in technology were basically the same, but the ideological grounds of the new technical changes were vastly different. The 3rd IR was built on the increased use of digital technology. The third industrial revolution led to the development of integrated circuits (IC), the internet, cellular phone microscopes, private computers, and mainframe computers. The old machinery-based manufacturing method was replaced with an improved semiautomatic system as a result of these technical advancements. Everything has been altered permanently as a result of the advent of digital logic and the internet. Global revolutions in the last 50 years have increased the population, eradicated several illnesses, reduced the food crisis and created a new global platform for humankind. Third industrial revolution's duration and effects must be discussed since this time-shortening phenomena will serve as a springboard for the next industrial revolution. During the fourth industrial revolution, technology is all about interconnection and time- and cost-saving. As part of the 4th Industrial Revolution, the connection between people and machines must be considered. In 2011, the German government launched a high-tech initiative that spawned the concept of the 4th IR. Smart factories and intelligent manufacturing, which many civilizations still aspire to, are the focus of this initiative. In the same year, the Hannover Fair in Germany launched the phrase "Industry 4.0." A few years after Klaus Schwab's initial use of "fourth industrial revolution" in 2015, it was coined by an economist and author of The Fourth Industrial Revolution. He also discusses the prospects for global new industrialization and the domains in which it may take place<sup>[\[4\]](#footnote-4)</sup>. As opposed to previous industrial revolutions, this one has gone to greater depths and has had a broader influence. Innovations are being hailed as the catalyst for a side effect miracle and the creation of an entirely new human civilization. There are a lot of things we may look forward to in the future base on the way things are now. Identifying and confirming the existence of the 4th IR may be made easier with the use of a few key signs. Some writers have referred to this as a "second machine age," and this is the first clue. When it comes to interconnectivity, you can't rely just on automated technology. The impetus for interconnection is the Internet of Things (IoT). The proliferation of internet-connected gadgets has become a widely accepted technology around the globe. The fourth IR's second ineffective component is the abundance of information, which may be described in a variety of ways. We are able to make better judgments for society because of the constant flow of data. Every effective invention depends on the availability of accurate information. It is via this synergy between new ideas and existing expertise that the industrial process is being improved. Human decision-making and issue resolution are aided by the employment of technological helpers. Improved technology has made previously insurmountable tasks doable. It is also possible to make autonomous decisions in a decentralized socio-economic system. Artificial intelligence has ushered in a new age of machine-to-machine communication. A lack of knowledge about the 4th IR is to blame for its relative obscurity on the planet at large. The revolution has already had an impact on how we live, work, and communicate, even if we aren't aware of it. This might have long-term effects on our beliefs and identities in the future.

**Figure 2.1: The history of the fourth industrial revolution**

[The history of the fourth industrial revolution](../assets/image1.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[5\]](#footnote-5)</sup>:** The Financial. "The Fourth Industrial Revolution: Focusing on Task-Centric Skills." The Financial Express. thefinancialexpress.com.bd. Accessed May 15, 2022.
