## 2.4 ORIGINS OF THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

For everyone, the fourth industrial revolution is a new phenomenon. Nonetheless, the process began in the 1950s, when scientist Allen Turing proposed a machine learning mechanism that might replicate human cognitive activities. The capacity of robots to make decisions using complex algorithms may have seemed unsatisfactory in the 1950s, but it is now demonstrated and well-practiced all over the globe<sup>[\[6\]](#footnote-6)</sup>. The introduction of quantum computing and the advancement of robots under the 3rd IR umbrella then smoothed the path for 4th IR. Furthermore, advances in genome sequencing and superior medical technology have created an open field for intervention and changes. Digitalization and globalization worked together in the 1980s and 1990s to change our daily lives. The use of the internet increased in the early 2000s, dividing the information process.

Mobile phones and personal computers are becoming more popular, and the technology built into these devices is making an impact. As more people became aware of the internet's advantages, demand for internet-enabled gadgets increased. Hare's devotion was crucial in the establishment of the fourth industrial revolution. The widespread usage of personal gadgets is supplemented by fourth-generation industrial materials. For everyone, a basic cell phone may be a lifeline. If we have the luxury of utilizing a well-designed cell phone, we do not need the assistance of others. Previous industrial information was collected in a set way, but the fourth industrial revolution allowed everyone the opportunity to improve their skills. Recent technical breakthroughs are already improving the situation. The conclusion of the global economic slump (2007-2008) ultimately changed worldwide product lines, ushering in the fourth industrial revolution.
