## 2.5 FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

Human society has always been contentious and dynamic. The industrial revolution was introduced in the last four hundred years are changed the pathway of human history. These industrializations bring prodigious changes in the production and consumption line. Increasing production is the root cause of a better lifestyle and high life span. The world's population has increased since industrialization started in the mid-18th century. For the fourth time in recorded history, the way the world works is changing in ways that can only be called revolutionary<sup>[\[7\]](#footnote-7)</sup>. As with the first, second, and third industrial revolutions, these changes affect not only business but all humanity, transforming the way we work, play, and live. However, in the fourth industrial era, there was a fundamental change in the way data were created, collected, processed, and analyzed. In other words, before the 4th Industrial Revolution, data only played

a secondary role in implementing various business ideas. However, now we live in an age where new values are created chiefly by using data<sup>[\[8\]](#footnote-8)</sup>. Previous industrial courses are way much slower than this industrialization. Nevertheless, the industrialization of the 21st century follows the latest formula of enhancing total capacity. This speed of technology and its transformation never match with previous revolutionary changes. Other variables like data support the speed of these industrial changes, algorithms, and automation. Artificial Intelligence is the basis for these types of advanced implications. So, we could say that the immense use of artificial intelligence and updated mechanical technologies made a possible scenario for human and machine coexistence. We still do not find any concrete definition of the fourth industrial revolution because of the speed of the recent changes in society. However, one thing is always relevant: the socio-economic condition of a particular place. The current data of socio-economic uprisings told us the reality of adopting new methods. Those who ignore the ongoing unprecedented situation may not distinguish between the third and fourth industrial revolutions. The truth has another plan to improvise the tactics and make humans think about the changes. How are they different from other changes? The answer is straightforward and courageous. Our existence is no more needed in any other place because every possible sector automation is the next big challenge. So how we are prepared for these changes is the main challenge for us in recent years.
