## 2.7 CHARACTERISTICS AND COMPONENTS OF THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

If we generalize 4IR, some core characteristics will show up. These items are the linkers between 4IR and human society. They are -

- Interconnection between two major parties that is machine and human
- Data enhancing and data freedom. The freedom of using big data for analyzing society.
- Integration of every possible technology and ensure that these will stay in society.
- Innovation of new ideas and techniques is key to reaching the mass population.
- The transition of old technologies and methods. How we took our next significant steps by eliminating existing norms and ideas.
- New social structure.

There are endless possibilities of how and what are the essential ingredients of 4IR but the real question is, are we ready to accept the changes? To get the changes, first, we have to identify the critical drivers of 4IR and learn how they will change the future world. What are the capabilities of the drivers, and where should we find the drivers? I have separated the core 4IR elements into two groups. One group is entirely technology-based, and another group is biologically related<sup>[\[10\]](#footnote-10)</sup>. Industrialization started with machines in productivity to enhance the production rate. The previous industrial elements were mainly based on productivity and time-reducing manners. However, the new industrial revolution follows some next-generation utopian thoughts and complex types of machinery. The base of the fourth industrial revolution is algorithms and artificial intelligence. The fusion of advanced AI, robotics, 3D printing, Internet of Things (IoT), genetic engineering, quantum computing, and other new materials are the essential elements of the 4<sup>th</sup> IR.

**Figure 2.2: Characteristics and components of 4IR**

[Characteristics and components of 4IR](../assets/image2.jpg)

**Source:** **Yusuf, Byabazaire & Walters, Lynne & Sailin, Siti Nazuar. (2020). Restructuring Educational Institutions for Growth in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR): A Systematic Review. International Journal of Emerging Technologies in learning (iJET). 15. 93. 10.3991/ijet.v15i03.11849.**
