## 2.8 WHAT DISTINGUISHES THE CURRENT INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION FROM THOSE THAT HAVE BEFORE IT?

**The exponential rate of this revolution sets it apart from previous ones in its dynamic character. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, industrialization was a sluggish and linear process that took several years to achieve its end point. The 4th IR, on the other hand, is far more integrated and active than the 3<sup>rd</sup> IR. The six-digit number**<sup>[\[11\]](#footnote-11)</sup>**.**

**This revolution, with its self-evolving character and depth, links different technologies in an unprecedented way. No previous industrial revolution has brought together so many different variables. The revolution has now impacted the economy, society, and the people who work in it. It tells us who we are and what we're capable of doing with our infinite capacity to change our behaviors. This transformation has become much too intertwined with our day-to-day activities**<sup>[\[12\]](#footnote-12)</sup>**. 4IR has a wide range of effects that may be applied to any current phenomena. This revolution is the result of previous revolutions, which were confined to a few countries or areas.**

**Every culture is vulnerable to the 4th Industrial Revolution because of the denial and absence of the 3rd Industrial Revolution. Mobile phones, for example, were beyond of reach for many in the third world. Nevertheless, the contemporary algorithm is capable of obtaining and studying the data of every registered person. These data may be obtained without authorization, which is the most important point. Either the government or ourselves are in charge of supplying these particulars. So, a farmer in a Bangladeshi community who has never used a phone is helping the algorithm improve its accuracy because he is healthy. Has the question arisen as to how an algorithm profited from the information it received from the user? What we do is feed this data to the algorithms, and in return, the algorithms tell us why the Bangladeshi government should vaccinate this farmer. This is a radical departure from the norms of today's society. In no way could we have anticipated that an algorithm could present us with such critical information that impacts our choices so directly. Industrial revolutions of the past were gradual and difficult to attain. 4IR makes it simple to open for everyone. It is possible for organizations, people, governments, and society as a whole to take part in and even adapt this process in their own ways. The revolution's acceptance is boosted by the fact that it is so easily accessible. For 4IR, the most important aspect is that it's a route of greatness that's quiet. Europe's most pressing concern when the steam engine was conceived was how much work the new technology could support. Because of the high cost of raw materials, not all industries have the same opportunity to improve the situation. However, in the 4th Industrial Revolution, an internet company platform does not need a large investment. Small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) are growing rapidly and at a low cost. This enables the development of new low-cost business models. In the next five years, it is almost difficult to forecast the future of AI or robots, since these technologies are constantly evolving. As a result of the ways in which technology is altering our daily lives, we are also undergoing change. We can forecast the utility of a steam engine, but we can't expect Facebook recommendations. This unpredictability is another key aspect of 4IR**<sup>[\[13\]](#footnote-13)</sup>**.**
