### \***\*3.2.2 UNEMPLOYMENT\*\***

Significant changes also hamper the ongoing social structures. The ongoing digital revolution mainly depends on low-cost productions, low wages of laborers, and accessible supply of raw materials. These all dimensions are connected with a widespread network of working populations. About 30% to 40% of the world population is directly related to working environments. Moreover, their families are also dependent on them. AI and machine learning (ML)are now endangering the situation of working people<sup>[\[18\]](#footnote-18)</sup>.

Nevertheless, it is natural to eradicate some jobs when new industrialization is introduced. However, some big question arises when we think or practice AI-based advanced technologies and the capacity of humans.

&nbsp;

- Are there any possibilities humans can save or bolster their position when answering a simple question?
- Are relay humans capable of doing all the perfectly managed works of fourth industrial machines?
- Are humans capable of challenging the algorithms?

&nbsp;

The answer never supports humans in this particular sector. We all know the ability of a perfectly running AI technology. Yes, they learn from humans and synthesize the given data, but they also can enhance their cognitive skills and make independent decisions without any human interface. So, this leads to another sector of reducing or eradicating the human job market. Why should a company hire a different population if the machines can do all the complex work without paying extra wages? As a result, the prediction tells us the possibilities of total automotive society in the next 50 years. Even they predicted various sectors vulnerable to losing their human-based management system.

**Figure 3.2: Automation and job insecurity in future world**

[Automation and job insecurity in future world](../assets/image4.jpg)

**Source**<sup>[\[19\]](#footnote-19)</sup> : Recruitment, Change. "How Will the Fourth Industrial Revolution Impact the Future of Work? - Change Recruitment." How Will the Fourth Industrial Revolution Impact the Future of Work? - Change Recruitment. <www.changerecruitmentgroup.com>, March 22, 2018.

However, there is a hope of another possible scenario in future. We may find ourselves spending all the time on our own and doing nothing. Machines will be our helping hands and everything. They will do every possible work for us. So, what happened to the economic sectors? A jobless society is a possibility for the future? The answers are very conflicting and controversial. Suppose if we imagine a community where the machines do every job for us, then what will we do? We do nothing and enjoy our lives. However, there are fundamental drawbacks to this idea. What about our economic system and capitalist ideologies of enhancing everyone's positions? These ideas and questions may seem romantic in 2022, but the reality is already created enormous fields of applications of those unrealistic thoughts. We have an uncertain future of the job market and economic conditions, but we still have the power and ability to control the technologies. After all, we are the humans who made those machines and ideas.
