### 3.2.7 ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION

Robotics and manufacturing are prevalent trends in the 21<sup>st</sup>\-century industrial environment. Automated manufacturing solutions should be a vital part of any operation that strives for maximum efficiency, safety and competitive advantage in the market. Manufacturing robots automate repetitive tasks, reduce margins of error to nominal rates, and enable human workers to focus on more productive areas of the operation. The global market for industrial robots is projected to grow steadily between 2018 and 2028. In 2020, the size of the market was estimated at around 55 billion U.S. dollars, with some 2.7 million units of industrial robots in operation worldwide<sup>[\[31\]](#footnote-31)</sup>. In 2028, the market size is projected to surpass 165 billion U.S. dollars.

**Figure 3.7: Robotics market in future**

[Robotics market in future](../assets/image10.jpg)

**Source**<sup>[\[32\]](#footnote-32)</sup>: Stateon. "Industrial Robot Market," 0 0, 2016. <https://d2c0db5b8fb27c1c9887-9b32efc83a6b298bb22e7a1df0837426.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/753134-industrial-robots-market-in-the-1200x675.png#1200x675>.

Already the developed countries are practicing fully automated pieces of machinery to eradicate the labor problems. The covid-19 effect is expected to increase the scale of the Industrial Robotics Market from US\$45 billion in 2020 to US\$119 billion by 2030. Over the projected period of 2020 to 2030, it is expected to grow at a CAGR of 15%. The 2025 forecast is predicted to be roughly 3% lower than the pre-COVID-19 prediction. The key driving drivers for the business are a lack of qualified labor and government and public-private partnerships presenting suggestions to mitigate the negative consequences of COVID-19<sup>[\[33\]](#footnote-33)</sup>. The skilled populations need high wages for doing any factory job, but the factories need low-budget workers to obtain maximum results. This dilemma finally ended when the robotics industries are announced that they could do the same and reduce the costs. The dream of charge-reducing manufacturing is only possible when the AI and IoT industries can work independently. Robotic process automation in manufacturing allows companies to remain competitive globally - offering an efficient, viable alternative to offshoring and fulfilling the skills gap in areas where it may be challenging to recruit the necessary employees. Manufacturing robots enable employees to focus on innovation, efficiency, and more intricate processes that ultimately lay the groundwork for growth and success. With a dedicated manufacturing automation solution in place, you can see increased productivity, worker safety and satisfaction, and a better bottom line. There are also some negative and positive sides to using robotics and automation in the industry, but the current world order needs dynamic choices and implications. AI and automation are the future of industrialization, and we cannot avoid the consequences. Whoever is behind in this action may fail in the future. No other technologies can give a higher return on investment, like robotics and automation. On the other hand, this cost minimizing technique is the root cause of unemployment worldwide. So, the current unemployment situation does not allow many countries to engage in robotics and automation. As a result, the countries continue their low wages based on economic developments. These developments further created an uneven society. The difference between poor and rich is rising day by day. Automations have some pros and cons, but the important fact is that we do not have the position to avoid the credibility of automation. Globally some MNCs are already opening their journey to automation. Already they are engaging more power and money in this sector. Some major automation giants are-

&nbsp;

- General Electric Company (U.S.)
- ABB Ltd. (Switzerland)
- Emerson Electric Company (U.S)
- Honeywell International, Inc. (U.S.)
- Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (Japan)
- Rockwell Automation, Inc. (U.S)
- Yokogawa Electric (Japan)
- Siemens AG (Germany)

One common thing in the automation industry is that the countries that adopt automation are all developed countries. Especially Germany and Japan are advanced in this sector because they are determined to expand the industrial revolution process. They started their journey decades ago to reach this position.
