### 3.2.3 BLOCKCHAIN

**A block chain is a chain of digital blocks that contain information. Once the information has been created, it is tough to change. It includes information about the sender, the receiver, and the amount of currency. The data is trustworthy because it is bound in a strict framework of rules and cryptographic keys, and only people with the correct key can access or modify the data. Blockchain also removes the need for an intermediary, such as a bank or a lawyer. In short, it facilitates transparency, which is the enemy of corruption.**<sup>[\[20\]](#footnote-20)</sup>

**Figure 3.3: The working dimension of a blockchain**

[The working dimension of a blockchain](../assets/image5.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[21\]](#footnote-21)</sup>: iPleaders. "How-Blockchain-Technology-Works - iPleaders." blog.ipleaders.in. Accessed May 15, 2022.**

Blockchain is cardinally used in the advanced digital transformation process. The cryptocurrency and digital cashless society depend on the blockchain. Nevertheless, the use of the technologies may be expanded in the future<sup>[\[22\]](#footnote-22)</sup>. We could use this in other sectors like the energy market, digital identities, health care, financial services, etc. The manufacturing industry needs an entirely corruption-free environment to enhance its capabilities. However, the dream of a corruption-free market and production is incomplete without applying the blockchain in the manufacturing industry. Another critical aspect of blockchain is that all of these technologies should include 3rd world countries because those countries are vulnerable to industrialization. The endemic corruption killed the dreams of
