### THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS

**Figure 3.5: Artificial intelligence and its scopes**

[Artificial intelligence and its scopes](../assets/image7.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[24\]](#footnote-24)</sup>:** Masood, Adnan . "The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing - Intelligent CIO Europe." Intelligent CIO Europe. <www.intelligentcio.com>, October 29, 2021. <https://www.intelligentcio.com/eu/2021/10/29/the-role-of-artificial-intelligence-in-manufacturing/#>.

The primary aim of any AI-based industry is to reduce technical problems and increase productivity. Maintaining inspection and continuous research on the issue can improve the quality of the work regularly. Beyond hypes and fads, AI works because it amasses significant benefits for the manufacturing sector, such as enabling brilliant production, developing predictive and preventative maintenance, offering supply chain optimization, improved safety, product development, and optimization, facilitating AR/VR (Augmented and Virtual Reality), cost reduction, quality assurance and enabling green operations (energy management), to name a few<sup>[\[25\]](#footnote-25)</sup>. Manufacturing industries commonly use AI enablement to increase overall equipment efficiency and yield. AI is also being utilized generally to improve productivity, quality, and consistency, which helps manufacturers forecast more accurately<sup>[\[26\]](#footnote-26)</sup>.The collective use of machine learning and artificial intelligence are identified as digital twins. These technologies work better when they collectively work for specific jobs. Another significant fact is the learning ability of an AI system. They learn from the data they are provided, and they get better day by day. This single characteristic of AI is enough to build an effective production line and a better workplace. To summarise the importance and possibilities of using AI in the manufacturing field, some key issues are unfolding that are relevant for any industry if they want to improve their industry. The key benefits of AI

- Enhancing the industry capacity
- Clear the production lines
- Ensuring the safety
- Made easy the problematic tasks
- Reduce the downtimes
- Saving money
- Scheduled maintenance
- Innovative ideas
- Effective business model
- Better monitoring
- Quality control
