### 3.2.1 RECRUITMENTS AND JOB INSECURITY IN INDUSTRIES

Employees place a high value on their job features/total job, and their level of job insecurity rises when they perceive threats to these and feel powerless. As a result of economic crisis, developments in information technology, industrial restructuring, and increased global rivalry, working life has changed dramatically in recent decades. As a result, businesses have been obliged to employ a variety of adaptive methods in order to meet new demands and remain competitive in this volatile climate. They can either improve their profits or reduce their costs, frequently by lowering the number of employees, to become more lucrative.

The next big challenge is recruitments in the job sectors that are decreasing, and unemployment is now a common headache for every government. According to LinkedIn's 2018 Global trends report, 76% of recruiters and hiring managers think that the 4th Industrial Revolution, specifically automation and AI, will significantly impact the recruitment industry<sup>[\[15\]](#footnote-15)</sup>. Specialist recruiters, especially within sectors that are highly vulnerable to automation, may need to upskill or shift their focus to a new discipline to stay in the game. Not only will recruiters have to deal with job losses across industries, but aspects of their roles could also be automated. Robots are already being used in the recruitment industry to make recruiters' jobs easier, quicker, and more fulfilling. It can be easy to get bogged down in admin tasks like screening resumes or scheduling interviews for talent acquisition. Over 52% of talent acquisition leaders admit that their biggest challenge is matching the right candidate to the proper role. Artificial intelligence technologies can help. Intelligent screening software, like ideal, can help recruiter's process large volumes of CVs to find the ideal candidate<sup>[\[16\]](#footnote-16)</sup>. It examines current employees' skill sets and attributes to find the perfect candidate to join the team. It can even pull information about the candidate from their social media profile or open-source company databases. Chatbots can be used to answer candidates' questions or provide feedback, and online interview software can be used to analyze interviewees' answers, including their word choice, speech patterns, and facial expressions, to determine their suitability. In the next part, a graph showed the possible scenario of job recruitment reality in the future. The chart predicts the recruitment market and finds the risky jobs that may vanish in the future.

**Figure 3.1: Future job recruitments and automation impacts in various industries**

[Future job recruitments and automation impacts in various industries](../assets/image3.jpg)
