### 3.2.4 IMPACTS OF IOT IN MANUFACTURING

Another side of evolving the manufacturing sectors is using the internet of things in the production line. The idea internet of things was generated after the improvement of the internet in the 1990s. **Internet of Things means a network of interconnected devices ranging from computers and electronic gadgets to vehicles, all connected to the internet. IoT allows these devices to seamlessly exchange and consume data with minimal human intervention. IoT consists of sensors/devices that "talk" to the cloud through connectivity**.

**Figure 3.4: How internet of things (IoT) works**

[How internet of things (IoT) works](../assets/image6.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[23\]](#footnote-23)</sup>:**Data Flair. "How IoT Works - 4 Main Components of IoT System," May 0, 2020. <https://data-flair.training/blogs/how-iot-works/>.

The automated system can decide the appropriate environment when the information is stored in the shadows. The machines can send data through their network and enhance the conditions. This innovative practice brings a new phase to the manufacturing system. Previous industrializations were not capable of customizing the products. Because the old-fashioned assembly line productions do not allow any external interference in the show, but (IoT) can control the displays and save energy. There are some other benefits of using IoT in the manufacturing process.

**Safet**y in the workplace is an essential issue for every industry. The advanced machines can connect without any human interface that helps them decide when calamities happen. Humans may hesitate to make any decisions, but devices and algorithms are not hassled.

**Cost minimizing and timely maintenance** is another positive effect of IoT. The primary target of an industry is always keeping the production cost at a minimum level and easy maintenance. The algorithms can do these works without any external interference. A simple program can run a whole industry and organize the production line, giving the best options to lower costs.

**Better quality** of a product depends on deep market analysis, and the human mind cannot do this analysis within a short period. So, the suitable solution for this problem is using AI and IoT to find the gaps and suggest future production mantra.

**Energy efficiency** and reducing the downtime of an industry can be achieved by promoting the IoT instruments. Advance robotics, sensors, machinery, controlling equipment could be a game-changer for future production lines. There are also some common uses of IoT in the bigger picture. They are now growing so fast that the sector will increase its area in the future. Some potential sectors are

**Table 3.1: Sectors of IoT**

| Industrial       | Personal                     |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Machineries      | Wearables Devices            |
| Smart Cities     | Mobile Phones                |
| Automation       | Tv, Refrigerators            |
| Transportations  | Small And Medium Electronics |
| Factories        | Home Automation              |
| Healthcare       | Monitoring Devices           |
| Sensors          | Agriculture                  |
| Massive security |                              |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
