## 3.2.8 INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTIONS GLOBAL IMPACTS ON IT INDUSTRY

**Figure 3.8: IT industry components**

[IT industry components](../assets/image11.jpg)

**Source**<sup>[\[34\]](#footnote-34)</sup>: Gordian Networks. "What Does an IT Company Do?- May-2022." gordiannetworks.com, January 10, 2019.

The IT industry comprises companies that produce and distribute software hardware-related equipment and internet-related services. The history of the IT industry is not very old. The digital revolution brought changes in business fields and created the IT industry. However, the objective is changing very fast, and recent advanced technologies are approaching a new dimension of the IT business sector. The fourth industrial revolution is based on algorithms and digital tools, and the size of IT-related businesses is also changing<sup>[\[35\]](#footnote-35)</sup>. The use of AI in mundane fields creates possibilities to include new ideas and techniques in the IT industry. The industry is also expanding very fast, and we have already reached a position where the IT industry can directly contribute to every business field. Trillions of dollars now cover the total value of the IT business sector. **An IT support company, also referred to as an IT managed services provider, comprises professional IT specialists who make up its core team. The team provides expert guidance and management on several IT applications ranging from general computer systems and device networking to electronic hardware and software applications**<sup>[\[36\]](#footnote-36)</sup>**.** Small business startups are perfect in this field. IT-related startups are now increasing at a very high rate because of the help they get from the government and private sectors.
