### 2.3.8 SMALL BUSINESSES AND THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

The actions of small businesses create new organizational structures, which change at a rapid pace. Modern SME industries are heavily reliant on artificial intelligence, significant data analysis, and robots. The usage of sophisticated algorithms will make it much easier for businesses to implement effective storage and data management solutions. Small businesses are also notable for their risk management and future suggestion strategies for the businesses they operate<sup>[\[42\]](#footnote-42)</sup>. Algorithms may have a significant impact, to say the least. In the future, the machine can recommend better strategies and new industries. Small company ideas are also encouraged by the current economic conditions in the developing countries. The importance of good customer service cannot be overstated. Specifically, smaller firms should focus on winning over customers. Increasing ubiquity is seen among specialist equipment that facilitates customer engagement. Throughout the day, customers use catboats and conversational phases to converse with companies. To put it another way, customers don't have to wait in line for hours to get answers. Additionally, it increases the likelihood of a successful conclusion to the negotiations. The 4th generation of infrared (IR) technology is thereby helping these sectors grow their businesses and strengthen their ties with customers. Other critical effects of contemporary technology on SMEs include:

- Feedback from clients
- Loyalty to both customers and authority
- Inexpensive installments
- Using a variety of storage options
- Monitoring
- Trying out fresh designs
- Utilization of robotics
