# 3.4.1 Agronomic Business

### \***\*2.3.1 AGRONOMIC BUSINESSES\*\***

**Humankind's oldest occupation is farming. As a result of industrialization, agricultural traditions began to become stagnant. A new agricultural civilization was formed by industrialization that places mass production and breeding at the core of each farming community. There has already been a significant rise in the number of everyday items produced thanks to the employment of new technology. Human work is being replaced by machines and new technologies that increase productivity. In many nations, agriculture has already been transformed by the digital revolution**<sup>[\[37\]](#footnote-37)</sup>**.**

**This means that farming communities have a difficult task in the next industrial revolution. Numerous agricultural jobs have already been replaced by robots, and AI (IoT) in agriculture is on the horizon. This is despite the fact that new technologies are allowing farmers to forecast and manage their farms more effectively. Using AI and big data, farmers will be able to have access to more sophisticated data. Fourth industrial revolution facilities are essential for crop planting, monitoring, information on selective breeding, reproduction costs, transportation facilities, the implication of fertilizers, weather data, and the expansion of the research arena. On the other side, Blockchain may help farmers better track their crops, make more money from their crops, and keep their agreements and transactions safe and secure. It also has the potential to provide financial support for manufacturing strategies that are both environmentally friendly and economically advantageous. As a consequence of improved inventory management and simplified food supply chains, farmers may make more money via the use of blockchain technology. The cryptographic security of a Blockchain is built in by design. Automated equipment, such as robots, may speed up manufacturing while decreasing labor costs. Farmland safety may also be enhanced by the use of advanced equipment and sensors. Another critical area in which 4<sup>th</sup> IR is being used in agriculture is to combat natural disasters. Additionally, industrial revolution in agriculture has had a number of good effects. Agriculture and 4.1 are shown in this diagram to make the connection obvious**<sup>[\[38\]](#footnote-38)</sup>**.**

**Figure 3.9: Agriculture and 4th industrial revolution**

[Agriculture and 4th industrial revolution](../assets/image12.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[39\]](#footnote-39)</sup>:** Sung, Jehoon. (2018). The Fourth Industrial Revolution and Precision Agriculture. 10.5772/intechopen.71582.
