## 2.4 Revealing's about the Fourth Industrial Revolution's influence on society

We're social creatures, and we're bound by the rules of the game. It is impossible for us to defy any social conventions. We are surrounded by these societal norms and restrictions. In the long run, revolutions like the Industrial Revolution are good for our civilization because they help us build a better world. Economic systems are profoundly affected by these norms.

However, the new industrial revolution is now linked to the artificial human cognitive capacity, which directly confronts our mental acts in the face of this new technology. Fake recommendations are increasingly affecting our social standards. Our modern culture has moved on from the antiquated notions of merely existing and getting by. We've shifted our focus to new initiatives, investments, and advancements. Now that economic systems have been altered, our norms are being driven by the system. The choices we make in life and in how we live are not entirely up to us. To increase our social standing, we abide by these rules and regulations. The communication infrastructure has already been altered by the fourth industrial revolution. We have never been more interconnected than we are right now. New norms or standards were established, and old ones were abolished, as a result of the increased connection. In spite of this, why does the old system not accept modern methods? The 4th IR has a fundamental and fascinating difference. We were able to establish a physically connected world because to the prior industrialization<sup>[\[43\]](#footnote-43)</sup>. Nevertheless, the artificial link at the heart of this transformation is the never-ending propaganda machine that permeates our daily lives. The Internet of Things (IoT), AI, and deep machine learning are now pervasive. Our social structure is progressively shifting, and we are unable to discern any differences since we are also changing in lockstep with the system; our online activities are designing our couches, in other words. The 4th IR brought with it a slew of societal issues, although history has a more favorable image of industrializations. Despite the fact that we must deal with some societal difficulties, automation will lead to greater connectedness and worldwide information exchange, which will benefit everyone. There are a number of major social issues that will be addressed in the 4th IR.

- The global underclass is viewed as the next great problem in any critical setting. Unbalanced economy and development of short-term economy damage socioeconomic class.
- Unbalanced progress throughout the planet. As a result, the world economy is in a state of crisis. Societal cooperation is not being guaranteed.
- Another core reason of the human-machine conflict is an ethical imbalance. Machines can't make decisions like humans can. Our road will be a lot easier if we use these analysis tools. However, technological advancements are also limiting the number of jobs available.
- Another societal effect of the 4th IR is the rise of surveillance capitalism. In the end, authorities use an algorithm system to uncover new businesses, political gaps, or ongoing societal problems by monitoring our decisions. This monitoring, however, is most crucial since we don't have to allow our digital footprints to be recorded. Our own virtual positioning can be influenced by providing this kind of information<sup>[\[44\]](#footnote-44)</sup>. The use of counterfeit data or information is now possible thanks to this remote surveillance.
- Another social concern is cyber security. The modern, social media-driven emerging world lacks the capacity to articulate its social ideals in detail. In contrast, risks have evolved as a result of human activity; physical threats are no longer the sole dangers to people. Cyberbullying, cybercrime, and cyber extortion are all serious threats to our society's safety.
- In the future, difficulties might arise as a result of less physical connections and more virtual connectivity.
- Another unfavorable effect of the 4th IR on society is the erosion of personal privacy. Even if we desire to keep what we do secret, we have no control over it. For survival or the creation of new ideas, we need data in some form or another. Data has emerged as a new form of money.
- Another downside of the fourth industrial revolution is the loss of energy. Natural components like lithium and copper, which are used extensively in the digital sector, may disrupt the natural equilibrium and lead to societal unrest in the future.
