## \***\*4.17 SOCIAL TRENDS, BEHAVIORS, AND CULTURAL IMPACT OF THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION IN BANGLADESH\*\***

**Bangladeshi society does not willingly accept new developments. New technologies are coming into conflict with long-standing societal conventions and beliefs that date back more than a century. All of us need industrialization for our own well-being. Having greater economic freedom may enhance our socio-economic situation. Despite this, there is another aspect of the plot that constantly questions the authority of the central characters. We are at odds with the fourth industrial revolution, which is reshaping our social structure. Because industrialization is a Western concept, the nations who pioneered it are already in fantastic financial health. To understand how the Bangladeshi economy will handle this subject and continue it in the future is difficult to predict. In this case, how society accepts the changes and the preconditions for achieving the goals are equally crucial. In order to overcome this problem, society has to be exposed to some fresh perspectives. It is possible that the new concepts may lessen the hazards and stimulate the use of the technology. Technological progress is reshaping societal norms and behaviors in unexpected ways. There may be some job losses in Bangladesh due to automation and digitization, but the present pace is not particularly encouraging. Inequality is increasing at an alarming pace in Bangladesh. Many issues will arise in the country's future social structure if this unequal growth persists. Technical superiority is a painful reality for most people, and it's everywhere. On the other hand, the number of people with advanced degrees is not growing at a quick rate. This divide might lead to social turmoil or a loss of confidence in the community in the future. The middle class has the most to lose from this image of inequality. As the economy expands, social inequalities are shrinking as well. Any investment would be a bad idea given the current state of the economy. A entirely different picture emerged when we looked at statistics on both inequality and financial growth at the same time. When it comes to the Bangladeshi economy, this is an established fact. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is still in its infancy, yet the preceding revolution displays a significant data-to-reality mismatch. When it comes time to implement 4 IR in Bangladesh, there are debates regarding whether or not this revolution is necessary. Bangladesh faces an increasing danger of joblessness as a result of automation, and the evidence points to an uncertain future for the labor sector. Because we don't quantify this 4th IR, we don't know what industrialization will lead to. Some positions that we thought were unassailable in 2022 may be eliminated by the 4th IR. The upheaval movements may be bolstered by the tremendous shift in the socio-economy, which directly impacts the whole society. There are several ways in which Theonomy may affect the nation, whether it be a positive development in the society or just a struggle against a large economic disparity. The foundations of society are already being laid, but there has been inadequate fore thought.** Next, I have found some social challenges that may impact the future of the fourth industrial revolution.

**Table 4.16: Social impact of 4IR in Bangladesh**

| Problems                     | Impacts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Inequality                   | The current Bangladeshi society is facing unprecedented inequality.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Mass underclass              | The gap between rich and poor is rising at a very high rate, abolishing the middle class.                                                                                                                                               |
| Me centred society           | Social media and the advanced use of algorithms bind new generations in my centred position. They are disconnected from the others.                                                                                                     |
| Community cohesion           | The economic and technological gap created community cohesion, and these are at a very high risk of expanding with the help of the 4th industrial revolution.                                                                           |
| Disempowered mass population | The governmental and non-governmental power practices are reducing rapidly. The mass people are mainly following algorithm produced trends. The power practice is narrowing because of a lack of social awareness about mundane issues. |
| Private and public security  | The enormous use of advanced algorithm-based technological products also affected another vital sector. The people easily give their info to the machines, which hamper the overall security sector.                                    |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**

Furthermore, many gaps affect the entire 4th industrial revolution scenario of Bangladesh. The next chapter briefly describes some of the significant gaps in the Bangladeshi socio-economic structure that may hold back the constant speed of the new industrial revolution.
