### 4.1 THE NEW NEON GOD

Bangladesh, which has a population of 163 million, is a nation to behold. After a long and bloody liberation struggle that ended in victory in 1971, the country gained its independence from Pakistan. The people of Bangladesh battled valiantly and successfully to restore their independence from a powerful military. After the independence, the nation began a new battle against poverty, social inequity, hunger, a weak economy, etc. As the nation-building process goes on, the Industrial Revolution continues to be a crucial part of the equation. For the country's continued growth, Bangladesh relies on exports and long-lasting garment businesses. Bangladesh's economy is already being affected by the effects of the Industrial Revolution of the early 1900s. There are several unexploited sectors in Bangladesh's 4IR, which would be a unique development<sup>[\[45\]](#footnote-45)</sup>. Hare, I've discovered some of the factors that influence 4IR from a Bangladeshi viewpoint in my investigation. Bangladesh's social structures already have these forces at play; yet, we have yet to see the shifts that have occurred. Recognizing 4IR's value cannot be overstated. It is essential that we follow current laws and pathways in order to develop a country with a strong emphasis on technological advancement. Artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things (IoT) are topics that are unfamiliar to most Bangladeshis, and even policymakers are not aware of their potential. In spite of this, we use these technologies every day and have become dependent on their downsides. The lack of understanding about the new neon rulers is to blame for this mishandling. Bangladesh's viewpoint on 4IR-based technologies will be explored in this writing, which will offer an insight of what the future has in store. Bangladesh's increasing internet access has placed us in a situation where we must either embrace the truth or deny it. Yes, it's critical that we all use new technology in a responsible manner, but it's also critical that we appreciate the magnitude of this historic phenomena. That we can't deny the truth is one of the most important aspects of 4IR. We can't avoid it any longer. We'll be better prepared for the uncertain future if we can find the holes and repercussions early. The following section of this paper focuses on the substantial consequences of the 4th IR in Bangladesh, as well as the key problems that are preventing us from achieving our full potential because Understanding what you don't know is always a priceless and game-changing experience.
