### \***\*4.2 AGE OF ALGORITHMS\*\***

English mathematician Allen Turing decided to put a computer through what is now known as the 'Turing test,' an intelligence test to see whether it could execute and replicate human behaviors after the end of World War II. It was for this reason that he came up with the Turing test: to see whether a computer could think for itself. This basic inquiry is the foundation of artificial intelligence, which was written by him. A variety of approaches were then explored by the scientist and the techie to find a solution. We finally understood that computers are mimicking human cognitive operations after 70 years after the idea. Algorithms nowadays are capable of running any program in the same way that humans can.

AI has a big effect on the economy and provides a lot of benefits. Now is the time for countries to invest in different kinds of AI applications in a smart way. If people's jobs and repetitive tasks are taken over by machines, GDP will go up and work productivity will go up. According to research by Accenture in 12 countries with developed economies, AI has the potential to double annual economic growth rates by 2035<sup>[\[46\]](#footnote-46)</sup>. This would change the way people work and create a new relationship between humans and machines. People can increase their work output by up to 40 percent if they know how to use their time well. PWC says that by 2030, 45 percent of all economic gains will come from making customers want to buy more and making changes to products. Bangladesh has a population of more than 163 million people living in an area of 1,475,707 km2 and more than 40 million students. This makes it hard to find work. The biggest worry about AI is that it will take away jobs. Human skills will be replaced by AI. Because of this, countries like ours with a lot of people and mostly low-level skills might find it hard to stay alive. The World Economic Forum says that AI and robots will make more jobs than they take away. Because of AI and other related technologies, the economy will grow faster than ever before and create a lot more jobs. People expect that the fourth Industrial Revolution will make 133 million new jobs. By 2022, 75 million jobs are expected to be lost. If we can teach people new skills in the right direction, we can successfully move into the new era of the fourth industrial revolution<sup>[\[47\]](#footnote-47)</sup>. We have Engage college graduates to come up with ideas for next-generation capital equipment and change Bangladesh's strategy for making things has changed from using a lot of workers to using a lot of knowledge. Bangladesh's 7th Fiscal Year Plan included the 2030 Agenda (2016-2020)<sup>[\[48\]](#footnote-48)</sup>. This is nice. opportunity to carry out the 2030 Agenda and meet the SDGs' needs at the same time. plan. To get to the next level, the Bangladesh government will have to take some strong steps. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs), philanthropists, tech companies, and other groups that collect or make a lot of number of facts. There are two big problems that will need to be fixed: making data easy to find and lack of people with the skills to improve AI, make better models, and put solutions into action. AI can play important roles in meeting the challenges of the SDGs.

In addition, they were taught it by humans. We provided them the data, and they were familiar with the process of sifting through it. Systems like machine learning, deep learning, and neural networking are all subsets of this process. They are the computer system's way of teaching itself. When it comes to this huge expanse of affluence and opportunity, the issue is, where does Bangladesh stand? Our IT department is already using a number of AI technologies to boost efficiency. Advanced AI technologies are used by several research farms in order to better serve their consumers. AI in Bangladesh also includes narrow AI, which refers to the practice of reducing the complexity of a task. Biometric authentication, fingerprint recognition, and Google searches are all examples of AI that are often used in Bangladesh<sup>[\[49\]](#footnote-49)</sup>.

First and foremost, most individuals are ill-informed about what AI can do. As a result, they fail to see the value of both ordinary digital technology and artificial intelligence. A "National Strategy for Artificial Intelligence" was already adopted by the Bangladeshi government by the end of 2018; nonetheless, government officials outline a large strategy to assure Bangladesh's employment of artificial intelligence. The Bangladeshi government has made a prudent and productive decision by finally recognizing the significance of artificial intelligence. Understanding the significance of this technology will help us better comprehend how it will affect our daily routines. Artificial Intelligence (AI) will play a big role in Bangladesh's administration, according to the country's top decision-making body<sup>[\[50\]](#footnote-50)</sup>. A five-year-long government policy regarding AI is already in place, as seen in the accompanying table.

**Table 4.1: Bangladesh government's plan for AI**

| 2019 | 2020 | 2021 | 2022 | | 2023 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | | --- |
| 1.BuildAI Task <br>Force | 1.Reskilling HR | 1.Enabling R&D,Global Affiliations | 1\. Development & <br>Implementation | | 1.Economic& <br>Social Progress <br>utilising AI |
| 2.Identify Priority Areas&Formulate Sectorial <br>Strategy | 2.AI innovation & VC fund | 2.Prototype <br>Development& <br>Piloting | 2.CommercializationAIStart-ups | 2.Establish AI <br>Innovation Hub | |
| 3.Institutional <br>Promotion and <br>awareness | 3.Digital <br>Infrastructure | 3.Resource pool <br>development | 3\. Employment and <br>empowerment | | 3.Institutionalization of Legal Framework |
| | 4.Public <br>Promotion and <br>awareness | 4.Law and Policy <br>establishment | 4\. Develop Strong <br>Partnership & Attract NRBs | | 4.Data-Driven <br>Directives <br>Generation |
| | 5.Industrialization of AI | | | | 5\. Workforce Read |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**

The table shows the chances of implementing the 4th IR in Bangladeshi society in five years. Although the current covid situation is hampering the upgrade process, many more can do with artificial intelligence from the Bangladeshi perspective. Some possible sectors are,
