## 4.3 Internet of things (IoT) and Bangladesh

One of the major bridges between the physical and digital applications enabled by the 4th IR is the internet of things (IoT). It is the next megatrend of upgrading the picture of instruments. Kevin Aston first gave the idea of IoT back in 1999. After two decades of hard work, we have created a network of 70 billion devices worldwide. They can operate on their own and even connect. The (IoT) market will reach a 470-billion-dollar market by 2024<sup>[\[51\]](#footnote-51)</sup>. Bangladeshi telecommunication regulatory commission (BTRC) made IoT legal in Bangladesh in 2018. The authority also mentioned specific sectors for using IoT. These sectors are the base for future industrial Bangladesh, but these sectors' use depends on other related measurements. The government also set some goals and strategies to fulfill the dream of achieving an IoT-based Bangladeshi society.

**Objectives**

- To facilitate, undertake and promote IoT awareness, adoption, training, research & development, production, and commercialization activities to increase efficiency, save costs, achieve transparency, and improve services;
- To undertake capacity development (Human & Technology) for IoT specific skillsets for the domestic and international market;
- To attract and assist domestic and foreign investment, technology transfer and export growth in the IoT industry;
- To ensure bringing all stakeholders together, including innovators, researchers, investors, organizations, development centers, institutions to realize the importance of IoT;
- To establish and strengthen a meaningful, and balanced collaboration between industry, academia, government, and the community on IoT

**Goals**

- Create a \$1 billion IoT Industry in Bangladesh by 2023
- Create 10,000 skilled workforce in IoT for the domestic and international markets by 2023
- Establish a national IoT research & development center by 2023 to develop IoT products specific to local needs
- Establish Three training, research, and development, innovation and exhibition centers related to IoT by 2025
- Create 100 IoT based start-ups by 2025 to solve local problems using home-grown IoT solutions
- Create a venture capital fund for IoT and electronics-based start-ups by 2030
- Developing, incubating, and financing IoT products in the areas of agriculture, health, water, natural disasters, transportation, security, automobiles, supply chains, smart cities, automated metering and monitoring of utilities, waste management, oil, and gas, in the light of domestic market needs.
