## \***\*4.4 Robotics and automation impact in Bangladesh\*\***

&nbsp;**Robots are not characters from science fiction or movies. They are machines that do productive activities for the benefit of the economy. Humans are always racing against one other to come up with new and better ways to do a task at a lower cost. One of the areas of attention has been on improving machine capabilities for 3D (dirty, risky, and tedious) operations**<sup>[\[52\]](#footnote-52)</sup>**. As a result of which, robots were born. Automation has made it possible for robots to execute productive jobs with more precision than humans, resulting in less waste and higher levels of consistency. From mechanical machines with many linkages linked by flexible joints to intelligent machines capable of perception and decision-making, they have undergone a transformation. Sensors on various Robots are able to see past things, unlike human eyes. They can also do the same task again and over again with micrometer precision, which is difficult for humans to achieve. That's a common demand in Bangladesh's furniture-making industry, which is geared toward exports. Furthermore, since they don't breathe or sweat, they can't contaminate things like food. As their capabilities have grown, robots are now able to do 3D tasks outside of the confines of a factory, making them important players in the production process in a variety of settings. There has been a steady rise in the use of robots to undertake productive duties, while human employees have been reassigned**<sup>[\[53\]](#footnote-53)</sup>**.**

With the wide range of applications for robots in contemporary manufacturing lines, robotics has become an increasingly important part of the global economy. The main goal of improving robotics is to reduce costs. Bangladesh's economy is growing quickly, so it needs to reduce costs and make a lot of things at once. In today's world, the human workplace is a complicated and sometimes unparalleled environment. No matching problems exist in robotics. Hunger or sadness do not affect them at all. They resemble well-tuned human robots, capable of simulating human actions but exhibiting no emotional response. Robotics are vital for every civilization in order to achieve the aim of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. In 2020, Bangladesh will have a robotics curriculum in place. In addition, the government announced a few initiatives aimed at securing the voyage.

**Objectives**

- Blend labor advantage with robotics for maintaining as well as improving the competitiveness of existing industries
- Open entry of Bangladesh to the manufacturing of high value, next-generation miniaturized, complex products requiring assembly adaptability, precision, and reliability beyond the skills of human workers
- Promote creativity, imagination, and innovation among youths,
- Support the growth of the industry for Robot R&D, innovation, adoption, adaptation, manufacturing, and maintenance
- Create opportunities for service export through remote collaboration with robots,
- Create high skilled human resources for performing tasks in collaboration with robots, programming robots, redesigning work processes and products, maintaining robots, and pursuing research and innovation in robotics
- Build robotics industry by maximizing local value addition for meeting domestic demand and exploiting growing export opportunities
- Leverage fourth industrial revolution in critical areas like agriculture, healthcare, and manufacturing<sup>[\[54\]](#footnote-54)</sup>.

The curriculum chooses numerous fields to engage robotics and reduce human labor. The global use of robotics is rising in four unique categories: military, personal, industrial, and commercial. Bangladesh should identify the possible opportunity to use robotics in those areas.

**Table 4.2: Possible sectors for implementing robotics technologies in Bangladesh.**

<div class="joplin-table-wrapper"><table><tbody><tr><th><p>Personal</p></th><th><p>Industrial</p></th><th><p>Military</p></th><th><p>Commercial</p></th></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Service robots</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Welding's</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Artificial solders</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Autonomous guided</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Nursing care</li></ul><p></p></td><td><ul><li>Painting</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Drones</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Vehicles</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Automated wheelchair</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Assembly line works</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Surveillance</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Medical robots</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Servant robots</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Disassembly line works</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Snipe detections</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Seller robots</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Personal mobility assistant tasks</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Pick and place the products</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Neutralizing explosives</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Home security</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Printed circuit</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Military trainers</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Remote personal works</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Labeling</li></ul></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><ul><li>Cleaning tasks</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Palletizing</li></ul></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td><ul><li>Product inspection</li></ul></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td><ul><li>Testing</li></ul><p>the products</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table></div>

**Source: Prepared by researcher**

The government policies also identified some sectors for future investments in robotics. The importance of automation is related to advancing the total industrial conditions, and the rising automation can reduce time and costs. Minimum cost and time management are crucial to success in the upcoming industrial world. Hare some indicators that are shown which are the reason behind the automation. These measurements are also applicable for the Bangladeshi perspective as the country is determined to improve its total automation scenario.
