## 4.5 BLOCKCHAIN AND BANGLADESH

Bangladesh is in the early stages of the Fourth Industrial Revolution's data-driven revolution (4IR). So, the government wants to ensure that the nation's varied regions take full advantage of new breakthroughs and develop skills that will allow them to create a new generation of innovators while minimizing the negative impact of 4IR on the nation's economy. In the Fourth Industrial Revolution, blockchain innovation is seen as one of the most important components (4IR). Blockchain is a new way to store data and conduct transactions without depending on a single trusted middleman, which is a major advantage. It has the ability to provide flexibility, even in the face of hardship, as well as robust support for the honesty, authenticity, and provenance of information.

**Figure 4.1: Blockchain possibilities in Bangladesh**

[Blockchain possibilities in Bangladesh](../assets/image13.jpg)

**Source**<sup>[\[55\]](#footnote-55)</sup>: National Blockchain Strategy: Bangladesh. "National Blockchain Strategy: Bangladesh," 0 0, 2020.

With all of these advantages, blockchain has opened the door to new possibilities in a variety of fields and has the potential to upend a wide range of already used applications. The Bangladeshi government has recognized a number of problems and potential applications for Blockchain technology. A large trip may still be started even if it is much too late to take this type of measurement. A government agency in Bangladesh has recognized Blockchain as a tool for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. We only have a little more than a decade to meet the specific SDG goals that have been set. Combining Blockchain with other 4th IR tools has the potential to alter the course of history. In Bangladesh, the national work plan on Blockchain highlighted a few key industries where the technology may be put to use<sup>[\[56\]](#footnote-56)</sup>. The government's strategy for Blockchain is summarized in the following table.
