### \***\*4.6.5 BUSINESS AND FINANCE\*\***

The E-commerce sector in Bangladesh has been growing rapidly for the 2-3 years with more and more consumers buying goods online. In 2009, Bangladesh Bank officially permitted the online payment system in the country and Wimax Internet was the first company to start the business. Today's marketplace is widely connected with AI because the market has been shifted from shops to shares. Nowadays, the digital market is considered the next supermarket. People are more comfortable using digital platforms to ye their products. However, who made those changes to customers' minds? They have not changed y any humans. The algorithm and digital advertising have changed the scenario of today's market. After the covid situation, the rise of digital platforms showed us the true potential of this sector. E-CAB Vice President Mohammad Sahab Uddin estimates that the sector's valuation in 2021 might have crossed Tk20,000 crore - about \$2.32 billion. By 2023, the market is predicted to reach \$3 billion<sup>[\[59\]](#footnote-59)</sup>. in the future, this market will certainly expand, and the impacts of 4IR may also increase. The digital marketplace of Bangladesh will decorate with social media-based marketing. In 2022, the eCommerce market is expected to bring in \$8.03bn. A compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 22.27 percent is expected for revenue from 2022 to 2025. This means that the market is expected to be worth US\$14.68bn by 2025. Most of the money is made in China, where the market is expected to be worth US\$1.412 trillion in 2022. By 2025, there are expected to be 75.5 million users in the E Commerce market. In 2022, there will be 35.0 percent of users, and by 2025, that number is expected to rise to 43.8 percent. The expected average revenue per user (ARPU) is US\$136.70<sup>[\[60\]](#footnote-60)</sup>.

**Figure 4.2: E Commerce platforms in Bangladesh**

[E Commerce platforms in Bangladesh](../assets/image14.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[61\]](#footnote-61)</sup>**: E-commerce in Bangladesh faced its own pandemic in 2021. "E-Commerce in Bangladesh Faced Its Own Pandemic in 2021." <www.dhakatribune.com>, December 29, 2021.

**Figure 4.3: E Commerce Business in Bangladesh (2017-2025)**

[E Commerce Business in Bangladesh (2017-2025)](../assets/image15.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[62\]](#footnote-62)</sup>** : statistic. "e Commerce - Bangladesh | statistic Market Forecast." <www.statista.com>. Accessed May 15, 2022. <https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/ecommerce/bangladesh>.

Because the number of total social media users in Bangladesh is significant, the business authorities and newcomers will select this place to increase their business. Some products currently developing online business culture, such as-

- Food delivery and selling industry
- Online fashion market spatially clothes, beauty products.
- Organic foods market and electronic equipment market
- E currier services
- Rare antiques and their online beddings
- Foreign industrial machinery

**Figure 4.4: E Commerce in Bangladesh in last 4 years.**

[E Commerce in Bangladesh in last 4 years.](../assets/image16.jpg)

**Source**<sup>[\[63\]](#footnote-63)</sup>: Statista. "e Commerce - Bangladesh | Statista Market Forecast." <www.statista.com>. Accessed May 15, 2022. <https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/ecommerce/bangladesh>.

So, how is AI related to this field? The answer has AI created this significant field of marketing. The e Commerce companies used advanced machine learning to reach every possible customer and buy the product. Machine learning algorithms are applied to CRM and analytical platforms and process innovation to improve conditions. The following table elaborates on the impacts of the 4th IR in the business sector in Bangladesh.

**Table 4.6: impacts of 4IR in Business**

| 4th IR   | Impacts                                                                                                                    |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| AI       | Draw impacts, data analysis, customer behaviors analysis, digital illustration of business, advertisements, data analysis. |
| IoT      | Cost minimization, effective remote machinery, and interconnected machinery.                                               |
| Robotics | Manufacturing robots and cobots,                                                                                           |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
