### 4.7.3 AGRICULTURE SECTOR

The most significant delta in the world, Bangladesh, has some natural advantages compared to agriculture. Despite having a small amount of land, Bangladesh can produce enough food for its vast population. The correct use of advanced technology can make a revelation and represent Bangladesh as an example for others. Already Bangladeshi agricultural scenario practiced many 4th IR facilities to accelerate the situation. The country has a long legacy of cultivating various types of crops. The ongoing climate change effects and rising population are hampering the entire cultivation process of Bangladesh. IoT, AI technologies can improve this condition by connecting new technologies. Recent impacts of 4th IR are-

**Table 4.8: 4IR impact on agriculture in Bangladesh. Author**

<div class="joplin-table-wrapper"><table><tbody><tr><th><p>4th IR</p></th><th><p>Impacts</p></th></tr><tr><td><p>AI</p></td><td><p>Government archives</p></td></tr><tr><td><p>IoT</p></td><td><ul><li>Sensors in the fields for eliminating interventions of both physical (preventing elephant attacks in hill used agriculture areas, other animal intervention in the crops fields) and natural (floods, droughts, cyclones, saltwater measurement)</li><li>Advanced irrigation system, soil management</li><li>Independent preservation system and automated farming</li><li>By monitoring the weather and alarming the farmers about potential risks</li><li>Advanced fertilizers for increasing production</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p>Robotics and block chain</p></td><td><p>Harvesting machineries are recently implicating in the Bangladeshi agriculture field but still the process is very slow</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div>

**Source: Prepared by researcher**

Though Bangladesh had a positive environment to practice 4th IR based facilities but we are still behind in this practice. Next, a table showed the possible sectors of agriculture of Bangladesh and how they are related to the 4th industrial revolution. The total simplification may not be possible now, but the opportunity is always there.

**Table 4.9: Possible use of 4IR in Bangladeshi agriculture sector**

| Areas      | Opportunities and real impacts                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Production | Resource optimizing, water management, land management, automation in the labor sector. |
| Food       | Food processing, distribution, preservation, marketing, quality control, smart storage. |
| Crops      | Hybrid crops, crops research, preservation, data analysis.                              |
| Chemicals  | Secured fertilisers, advanced chemicals for plant growth, pesticides.                   |
| Animals    | Unwanted attack prevention, climate prediction.                                         |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
