### \***\*4.7 IMPACTS ON ENVIRONMENT\*\***

One of Bangladesh's most pressing issues is climate change. It is estimated that a one-degree Celsius increase in global temperature may wreak havoc on 30% of Bangladesh's land. The problem is beyond our control since we lack the necessary resources. The environment funding and government measures aren't adequate to deal with the crisis right now, unfortunately. Every area of Bangladesh's economy is being affected by the country's climate crisis. Everything from agriculture to health care is affected. The condition can be controlled by advanced IoT technology. Air, soil, and water may be monitored by IoT devices that can also alert authorities if their readings fall below acceptable levels. The Internet of Things (IoT) has the potential to safeguard the movement of wildlife, endangered species, and vegetation. Natural catastrophe forecasting is another crucial area where IoT is a strong alternative for success due to the accuracy of machines. IoT devices may be used to monitor a broad variety of geological regions from afar. When it comes to this kind of work, the most typically employed tools are cameras and sensors. The inaccessible highland regions of southern Bangladesh are home to a large number of endangered species. The adoption of Internet of Things (IoT) is a great way to reduce the dangers. Additionally, this might help to eliminate other issues, such as drug trafficking and human trafficking. Industry 4.1 has a number of environmental difficulties that haven't been directly impacted in recent years, but these issues will have a significant impact on the environment in the future. There is already a lengthy technical procedure published by the World Bank that covers numerous AI-based solutions for reducing environmental issues. These techniques may not work for Bangladesh for now, but there is still some path to fight against natural power. Following table categories, the possible use of the 4th IR in the environmental management of Bangladesh.

**Table 4.7: 4IR impacts on environment in Bangladesh**

| 4th IR Components            | Impacts on Environmental issues of Bangladesh                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Artificial Intelligence (AI) | Sensors to protect rare animals, predict the weathers and prevent calamities by give early alarms. Sustainable use of energies. |
| Internet of Things (IoT)     | Harvesting machineries, irrigation machineries,                                                                                 |
| Robotics                     | Haven't practiced yet                                                                                                           |
| Blockchain                   | Minimize the corruptions in government and NGO projects.                                                                        |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
