### \***\*4.6.8 MANUFACTURING IMPACT OF ROBOTICS\*\***

Robots can also be used in the manufacturing sectors and increase productivity. The assembly line in the garment and other manufacturing platforms often faces the pressure of heavy workload. Humans have a limit and specific criteria to produce new materials. However, robots had no issue with vacations, challenging workload, or psychical. They have a program to run a factory. Bangladeshi manufacturing industries are using this chance, and they are already adopting a combination of human and robot cooperation for the company's betterment. Bangladeshi sectors heavily depend on human labor, but they have to merge with new technology and robotics. So, most of the company is adopting a collaboration of human-robot engagement in production. They guide humans to control robotics and improve working conditions. Already some of the pressures and injurious works are practiced by robots. The positive outcome of this robotics is Bangladeshi industry is now very much affirmative to adopt new human-robot cooperation. Bangladesh needs to keep adding technology to work in order to reach its economic goals for 2021, 2030, and 2041. Robotics is one of the technologies that have been used. Robots will make people more productive. On the other hand, robotics will make it possible for Bangladesh to start doing things like high-precision manufacturing, food processing, farming, and more. Bangladesh will also be able to connect its labor force to the new global value chain for remote service delivery thanks to the next generation of robotics. Also, robotics gives young people a lot of opportunities to pursue creativity, innovation, and new businesses. Bangladesh's ability to make money based on labor is also at risk because of robots. Bangladesh should also get ready for the effect of robots taking over jobs.

**Cost, Quality, and Productivity in Terms of Competitiveness:** Producers are always weighing the pros and cons of using people vs. robots to meet cost and quality goals. At the end of the day, the decision comes down to how much it costs to make something. On the one hand, robots are getting cheaper, but on the other, they are helping to make things better and waste less. Producers are also being pushed to keep giving their workers more money. But customers are asking for better products at lower prices more and more. Robotics and automation are a good way for producers to deal with these different factors. From ready-made clothes to plastic goods, more and more manufacturers are turning to robots. The first problem is that there aren't enough people with the right skills who can work together with robots. To use robots in productive tasks that are already in place, work processes need to be redesigned and robots need to be programmed. Producers have a hard time finding skilled people to do this work so they can use robots. Robotics technology is getting better, which means that new opportunities are opening up. Producers don't use it to beat competitors because they don't have the skills to come up with next-generation robotics solutions locally. Also, the firm management doesn't seem to have a clear idea of how technologically and economically feasible Robotics is. On top of that, robots that are already on the market should be tweaked and improved so that they can be used for their intended purposes.
