### 4.12 SOCIAL MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT FIELD

For the last fifteen years, the world has entered new societal interconnectivity. Social media is a virtual platform to improve social connections and share their activity. But this media also has some other social social-economics. Entertainment media is also improving and using the 4th IR components to expand its fields. The following table will summarize the use and possibilities of the 4th IR in the social media and entertainment sector.

**Table 4.12: 4IR and its impact on Bangladeshi social media**

<div class="joplin-table-wrapper"><table><tbody><tr><th><p>4th IR</p></th><th><p>Social media</p></th><th><p>Entertainments</p></th></tr><tr><td><p>AI</p></td><td><p>Photo verification, targeted advertisements for various industries, product advertisements are already practiced on social media sites. The techniques are based on advanced machine learning. There are also many possibilities, such as</p><ul><li>Track global brand mentions</li><li>Find a new audience</li><li>Monitor social mentions</li><li>Emerging consumers trends</li></ul></td><td><p>Entertainment fields in Bangladesh are currently using many AI-based systems. The cinema hall culture of Bangladesh almost vanishes, and the possibilities of emerging new OTT entertainment platform depends on AI. The total viewer and targeted advertisement subscription is a newly growing economic phenomenon. Mobile applications and online media are hugely popular nowadays. Movie, tv series, songs are now released in online media, and people hugely adopt these changes. This experience is a new dimension for Bangladeshi media culture. AI entirely supports all these new tools.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p>IoT</p></td><td><p>IoT helps personalize the system and arrange automatic posts in the social media marketing process.</p></td><td><p>We are tracking user locations and creating parameters for further use.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p>Robotics</p></td><td></td><td><p>Use robotics technologies in cinema making.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div>

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
