# 4.8.2 Rmg Industry

### 4.15.2 RMG INDUSTRY

Internet of Things (IoT) in the context of industrial automation may provide new opportunities for mass manufacturing. Almost all of Bangladesh's businesses are in the garment industry. The economy is likewise heavily reliant on this industry, which is expected to bring in \$368 billion in 2021-the majority of the GDP<sup>[\[64\]](#footnote-64)</sup>. By increasing the quality of the job and hence the market, the Internet of Things and other cutting-edge technologies have the potential to boost profits. In the next years, as industrial demand grows fast over the world, the advantage will go to whomever is best at automating the industrial process. Clothing (RMG) manufacturing is the backbone of this nation's economy; the country is an example of how to persevere through hardship. Bangladesh is now one of the world's leading apparel exporters, with the RMG sector accounting for 84% of the country's output. This reflects the area's fast modernization and growth over the last 10 years, as well as the initiatives it has taken to improve conditions for the country's approximately 4,000,000 garment workers<sup>[\[65\]](#footnote-65)</sup>.

**Figure 4.5: Monthly income of Garments workers in Bangladesh**

[Monthly income of Garments workers in Bangladesh](../assets/image17.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[66\]](#footnote-66)</sup>:** LightCastle Partners. "The 4th Industrial Revolution: How It Is Changing the Ready-Made Garments Sector of Bangladesh - LightCastle Partners." <www.lightcastlebd.com>, December 5, 2021.

**Figure 4.5.1: Bangladesh RMG export**

[Bangladesh RMG export](../assets/image18.jpg)

Source<sup>[\[67\]](#footnote-67)</sup>: Statista. "Bangladesh: Export Value of Ready-Made Garments 2020 | Statista." <www.statista.com>, 0 0, 2022.

While this has slowed down the region's growth, it has also impacted Bangladesh's position in industrial supply chains, which has been impacted by the epidemic. This sector's steady expansion helps to raise the overall GDP of countries across the world. These clothes help to alleviate the issue of joblessness. However, the existing state of affairs is inadequate to deal with global economic and industrial issues. The whole industry was influenced by the possibility of increased automation and decreasing output. The future of the Bangladeshi garment sector will be difficult. The matter is already spiraling out of control. When it comes to Bangladesh's RMG industry, rising competition has highlighted numerous fundamental concerns<sup>[\[68\]](#footnote-68)</sup>. But the problem is Bangladeshi labors are cheaper than other countries that is why the industry itself don't want any technological intervention.

**Figure 4.6: Labor cost and production cost of Bangladeshi garments products**

[Labor cost and production cost of Bangladeshi garments products](../assets/image19.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[69\]](#footnote-69)</sup>:** LightCastle Partners. "The 4th Industrial Revolution: How It Is Changing the Ready-Made Garments Sector of Bangladesh - LightCastle Partners." <www.lightcastlebd.com>, December 5, 2021.

On the other hand, the worldwide RMG production estimate is increasing at a very rapid pace. The apparel industry's near-term future is being shaped by this phenomenon. Workers and employers are confronted with a hitherto unidentified dilemma: job instability and a decline in productivity<sup>[\[70\]](#footnote-70)</sup>. However, there may be a more pressing issue at hand. Compared to other RMG wealthy nations, Bangladeshi employees are paid the lowest salaries. It is now possible for the corporation to achieve great levels of success thanks to its low-cost manufacturing facility. Because of this, the laborers never leave their enclaves. As a result, growing output in Bangladesh's RMG industry will not be possible during the fourth industrial revolution. The lack of innovative technologies in the clothing industry is a direct result of this low-cost manufacturing strategy. Another important factor is the added expense that comes along with implementing new technologies. A majority of the industry does not want to add more costs to the present system since new technologies are expensive. When it comes to supplementation or alternatives, they don't want to get rid of the current plan. The clothing business is still operating on the same principles as in the past. Neither the authorities nor the workforce in this industry are keeping up with the rapid worldwide developments. It's just that the truth is too harsh and straightforward. New concepts and rules must be implemented if this sector is to enhance RMG's overall standing. The apparel sector may improve its capacity to adapt by following a few guidelines. There was a table that listed some of the most prevalent issues in Bangladesh's RMG industry and ways to overcome them.

**Table 4.14: RMG challenges and impact of 4IR in Bangladesh**

| Barriers             | Solutions                                                                        |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Unemployment's       | Create alternative industry for workers                                          |
| Cost minimises       | Adopt the latest technology                                                      |
| Unskilled employs    | Produce AI-based technical support in the training period.                       |
| Low production       | Adopt the latest technology                                                      |
| People engagement    | Deliver the original data and open industrial treaties to gain people's trust.   |
| Energy uses          | Use recent energy-saving IoT machines.                                           |
| Increased production | Modify the instruments, connect them with an algorithm, and join more IoT stuff. |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
