### 4.15.1 IMPACT ON THE IT INDUSTRY

Bangladeshi governments recognize the IT industry as a future growths tool. The enormous possibilities inspire Bangladeshi business sectors to improve their IT-based business structure. The future of the business of Bangladesh will be entirely dependent on the IT business. Already other developing countries are showing significant growth in this industry. The government authority can think about the accompanying technique to praise the progressing 'Digital Bangladesh,' which will speed up the IT business and use this area as a stage for practical development. Through infusing a significant venture of USD 1.0 billion north of five years (USD 200 million every year), the public authority can speed up progress in this area. This methodology can heighten endeavors in explicit regions-

- Speeding up IT preparing/abilities.
- Actively drawing in global IT organizations/financial backers (Google, Intel, and so forth) to layout IT habitats (R&D, Service).
- Helping Bangladeshi business people to begin IT organizations by giving assets/brooding, deals/business improvement/advertising support.

The proposed technique can produce the two principle positive results that will put Bangladesh towards the objective of manageable development: one is the production of high paid IT occupations, further prompting the extension of little Bangladeshi IT organizations, while the second is to create a massive inflow of foreign trade through Foreign Direct Investment. Additionally, this could likewise prompt the formation of top-level salary occupations that would urge unfamiliar prepared Bangladeshis to return (consequently switching the mind Drain), who can add to R&D and assist with drawing in foreign organizations to come. The IT business likewise utilizes higher expertise, pays better, can be steadier with more significant potential for development than the RMG area, which is more helpless against cheaper locales in Asia and Africa. The advancement of a more expert place will urge youth to prepare for better schooling/IT, creating higher pay. Bangladesh can likewise get gigantic settlements from trading IT work. At this point, there are nearly 500 programs, and ITES organizations are enlisted in Bangladesh. These organizations utilize north of 12,000 nearby ICT experts. The size of the ICT market, barring telecom in Bangladesh, is assessed to be US\$ 300 million altogether; the product and ITES ventures share 39% (US\$117 million) of the market. Over 100 organizations send out their items to more than 30 nations. The significant product market in North America; however, numerous IT organizations began commodity to EU nations and East Asian nations, mainly Japan. No less than 30 organizations, among 100 organizations that send out their items, are laid out through joint-adventure with an abroad organization or as a seaward improvement community (ODC) by 100% foreign capital.

The possibilities of enlarging the IT industry depend on some significant phenomena. Because of the social structure of this country, there are few chances for developing new ideas. Social acceptance is a big issue in Bangladeshi society. The success of a new business model depends on appropriate social support and acceptance. Some other critical focal points are

- A healthy environment for the IT industry
- High-speed internet connection
- Government loan for IT start-ups
- IT industry-based education and training centers
- Social awareness
- Reducing the costs of the equipment

The future is way more critical than we thought, and we have to accept the changes to develop our socioeconomic position. IT industry is that future we all need to praise and protect. The 4IR impacts in Bangladesh also open new sectors for the IT industry.
