### \***\*4.15.3 IMPACT ON BIOLOGICAL AND MEDICINE INDUSTRY\*\***

The fourth industrial revolution is not an entirely technical-based improvement. A significant part of industrialization includes biological supremacy and new ideas. The total population of this country does not allow a healthy environment for all kinds of business but the medicine manufacturing industry is one of the prominent sectors of the Bangladeshi economy. The modern world is toward the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR). This time will drastically change the human utilization of innovation, with significant ramifications for how individuals live and work. This critique inquires: will 4IR change drug store practice? The initial three upsets did the medicine business and gave doctors close syndication over the drug supply. To keep up with its situation in the clinical, commercial center, medicine industries need to find how to function with AI, mechanical technology, IoT, independent vehicles, three-dimensional printing, nanotechnology, biotechnology, materials science, energy stockpiling, and quantum figuring.

Furthermore, the advanced biological supremacy development increases the position of going beyond the existing physical world. Some new technologies are already practiced in the Bangladeshi perspective and the opportunity of developing new ideas. Some new ideas should be connected with the current fourth industrial revolution components. Here are some hypothetical explanations and possible scenarios described in a table to identify potential future sectors and medical and biological field improvements.
