## \***\*4.16\*\*** \***\*SDG AND 4TH IR IMPACT IN BANGLADESH\*\***

The current Bangladeshi society and government are following SDGs to improve the lifestyle. However, it is a big challenge for us to continue the changes because the SDG does not clearly show the relationship between the industrial revolution and SDG. Though Bangladesh is approaching to fulfill the essential characteristics of the fourth industrial revolution, they do need a framework to merge the revolutionary changes. The AI can easily be applied in the SDG fields, and there are already many steps that the Bangladeshi government has taken. Bangladesh is committed to solving the most pressing problem of SDGs with emerging Artificial Intelligence<sup>[\[72\]](#footnote-72)</sup>. Artificial intelligence in this field will make an easy pathway to improvement. Typically, SDG needs to be more specific in certain issues, and the overall behaviors of AI are so much pointed to this sector. The government will follow the McKinsey Global Institute Analysis to improve the condition. Rather than generalizing S&T, Bangladesh should concentrate on SDG accomplishment using the 4IR technological stack. Detecting, screening, and developing innovation potential will help achieve the SDGs. Despite the enormous potential, future 4IR developments will need continual redesign of goods and processes, aided by information input. So that local enterprises may profitably embrace and adapt global offers, R&D capability should be strengthened to enable this knowledge transfer<sup>[\[73\]](#footnote-73)</sup>.

Despite the concern of job loss, leveraging 4IR's innovation potential may I create high paying positions for graduates, (ii) increase Bangladesh's competitiveness, (iii) join new high-value added productive sectors, and (iv) improve resource effectiveness and efficiency in achieving SGDs. Develop a globally competitive local innovation system by overcoming market, system, and direction problems. Prioritize an innovative and entrepreneurial culture while tackling them. According to stakeholder consultations, the present emphasis is on gathering data rather than building programs and initiatives to achieve SDGs using 4IR technology stack. It seems a map is needed to relate 4IR technology potential to SDGs, objectives, and indicators. The plan should address market, system, and directional shortcomings. This map would help departments create initiatives. The future of work problem should concentrate on task-level analysis to forecast potential transformation, skill growth, and intrinsic capacity sharpening, with an emphasis on women. This may guarantee the newest industrial revolution is really inclusive and leaves no one behind, unlike past ones. In light of these observations, Bangladesh should see the influence of the fourth industrial revolution on the future of labor and SDG achievement as a unique opportunity, not a problem.

**Figure 16: Use of AI in the SDG field. Mekinsey model**

[Use of AI in the SDG field. Mekinsey model](../assets/image20.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[74\]](#footnote-74)</sup>:** UNDP. "Using AI to Help Achieve Sustainable Development Goals | United Nations Development Programme." <www.undp.org>, January 21, 2019. <https://www.undp.org/blog/using-ai-help-achieve-sustainable-development-goals>.
