## 5.1 EDUCATION IN THE TRADITIONAL SENSE PRESENTS A NUMBER OF DIFFICULTIES

Any country's industrialization would be hampered without a well-educated workforce. While there is no ideal education system for the fourth revolution, a specialized education dominance is required for complete automation, which is dependent on technology and modern equipment. Despite this, Bangladesh's existing educational system does not adhere to the technical education model. Only 8% of the high school students pursued technical training. Approximately 1.4 million students take the high school equivalency test each year, yet only 60 thousand spots are available at public colleges.

As a result, here is where the genuine gap is found. Students aren't obtaining enough technical instruction in elementary and secondary school, making it difficult for them to advance in their technical expertise. So many students passed the course without any technical training. A generation of certified jobless people was born because of this educational gap. There are around 3.1 million unemployed people in Bangladesh.

Furthermore, roughly 60 percent of the jobless are university students. Business and social science majors account for the majority of jobless undergraduates (62% as of 2017). We're alarmed by these stats. Because of the recent avian influenza epidemic, the whole educational system went into hibernation for about one and a half years. During this time, online schooling was established, but the outcomes aren't encouraging. Almost 86 percent of the young educated generation has access to cellphones, and 72 percent have utilized the internet as a form of leisure. Only 28% of people are aware of the benefits of the internet. These findings reveal a generation that lacks a firm grasp of the internet. Technical superiority and improved algorithm-based instruments are at the heart of the fourth industrial revolution. In our nation, the next generation should benefit from fourth industrial knowledge, yet there is a vacuum in education because of the absence of social and central consciousness. Because the participants in these decades-long, fruitless practices are youthful generations, this chasm will haunt society for a long time. The future of the country's technological prowess is heavily dependent on a well-executed and effective education system.
