**5.17 POLITICAL CHALLENGE**

- Changing global order
- Economic warfare between the West and China
- Ukraine war
- Monopoly over the raw materials and dependency
- Pandemic
- Food price hike

Every country in the world is eagerly waiting for the next big breakthrough, no matter what kind it is. But not all of the states can use all of the facilities. In the 21st century, the way power is shared is not fair. Things are now working more on a strategic level than on an emotional one. The West made 4IR and controlled it, so it was the only technological field in the world. In the future, technology shouldn't be controlled by just one group. This monopoly keeps Bangladesh at the bottom. Bangladesh has a big market for 4IR hance, but its technology isn't at its best yet. Bangladesh gets almost all of its electronic and mechanical parts from China. Most of the work on the product was done by companies in Bangladesh, but we didn't have any real sources of technology.

**Figure 5.4 : Global Supplier of semi-conductors**

[Global Supplier of semi-conductors](../assets/image24.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[79\]](#footnote-79)</sup>:** OEC - The Observatory of Economic Complexity. "Semiconductor Devices | OEC." oec. world, 0 0, 2022.

On the other hand, powerful countries keep getting more and more involved in the tech market, and it's mostly a war between the West and countries that are just getting started. The recent trade war between the U.S. and China shows that being cooperative is becoming less and less important. Powerful countries are now trying to get even more control over the electronics market.

The recent war in Ukraine has sped up the process, and the prices of raw materials have started to go up, which is a bad sign for countries like Bangladesh. Because as the cost of raw materials goes up, the chances of becoming self-sufficient in electronics go down.

The ongoing political crisis between Russia and the West affected the 4th IR, and the effects will be felt in Bangladeshi politics. Semiconductors are the heart of all machines, and their production and supply have already started to go down. Some countries have also changed their export policies. In the long run, the lack of raw materials will slow down production, which will hurt the economy as a whole.

Most countries almost stopped for more than 18 months because of the pandemic. That's long enough for a farmer to change jobs. Bangladesh is also having trouble because the CPI is going up. Socioeconomic unrest will get worse because of the food crisis. Global food prices are most likely to keep rising even after jumping to a record high in March this year as reflected in the FAO Food Price Index (FFPI) which averaged 159.3 points in March, up 12.6 per cent from February when it had already reached its highest level since its inception in 1990. Food accounts for a much larger share of average household's total expenditure in developing countries like Bangladesh where food, non-alcoholic beverages and tobacco weigh very heavily on the consumer price index (CPI), the principal measure of inflation in Bangladesh accounting for 59 per cent of total weight. Furthermore, higher energy prices will also feed into food prices through increased transport and input cost<sup>[\[80\]](#footnote-80)</sup>. For a country like Bangladesh, facing social unrest at this point in its development would be a nightmare. The hard-working people of Bangladesh aren't going to give up easily. They will keep making progress and meet the challenge of the world as a whole.

**Figure5.5: Global food price hike**

[Global food price hike](../assets/image25.jpg)

**Source <sup>[\[81\]](#footnote-81)</sup>:** FAO Food Price Index|World Food Situation|Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. "FAO Food Price Index|World Food Situation|Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations." <www.fao.org>, 0 0, 2022. <https://www.fao.org/worldfoodsituation/foodpricesindex/en/>.

**Figure 5.6: Bangladesh Food price CPI index**

[Bangladesh Food price CPI index](../assets/image26.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[82\]](#footnote-82)</sup>:** Bangladesh Consumer Price Index (CPI) - April 2022 Data - 1993-2021 Historical. "Bangladesh Consumer Price Index (CPI) - April 2022 Data - 1993-2021 Historical."
