## 5.7 CHALLENGE IN SKILL AND UNSKILLED POPULATION

Take on the role of an employee, not an individual contributor. Every industrial culture has a unique set of skills. The creation and implementation of new methods determine the rate at which technology advances. Skilled populations are vital in the face of contemporary difficulties. Every fourth industrial revolution duty can't be completed by Bangladesh's working-age population. In most cases, competent foreign workers are in charge of the technical team. However, according to the foreign ministry, there are around 60 thousand international workers. Another crucial aspect of this skill growth phenomena is that the developed skilled employees are not particularly high in their ranks. Only 317,528 of the 734,181 Bangladeshi employees that were transported overseas in 2018 were skilled workers, making up about 43 percent of the total. Regardless of how they are arranged, the statistics are uninspiring. Data on the number of skilled workers in the United States is much more appalling. In 2021, Bangladesh had 60 million individuals who were willing to work in any kind of arduous position. Only ten thousand persons were being trained by the ministry in 2017 according to available statistics. As a result, there is a wide disparity between Bangladesh's skilled and unskilled populations.

The ICT industry, on the other hand, is making progress in this area. Around 28 ICT parks will be established in Bangladesh's economic structure as a result of a series of projects aimed at enhancing the country's trained workforce. A number of initiatives have already been implemented by the government to improve educational opportunities for students who use information and communications technology. Despite the government's stated goal of creating a strong workforce in this area, progress has been slow. This unparalleled rapidity of change necessitates a large trained workforce. As a result, there is a void in the pool of people who are competent. The most distressing aspect of this predicament is that we can't stop the revolution from taking place. The world may begin a new industrial revolution once we reach the ideal stage for this revolution. Insufficient time is available to deal with the problem. If we want to see results, we must take considerable measures to address this working population gap.
