## 5.8 STRUCTURAL CHALLENGES

## (INTERNET SPEED, MOBILE DATA, BROAD BAND SPEED)

4th industrial revolution does not actively run if there is not enough facility for the devices. Bangladesh ranked worst in mobile data speed, save for Afghanistan, in a worldwide rating of mobile and broadband internet networks. With an average download speed of 10.76 megabits per second (Mbps), Bangladesh scored 133rd out of 138 countries on Ookla's Speedtest Global Index for September. Bangladesh's average mobile upload speed was 6.96 Mbps, with 39 ms latency (ms). They are 11.22 Mbps and 42 ms. The Maldives ranked 57th with a download speed of 35.70 Mbps, above the world average. Sri Lanka was 102nd, Pakistan 116th, Nepal 117th, India 131st, and Afghanistan 138th at 7.26 Mbps<sup>[\[75\]](#footnote-75)</sup>. Bangladesh ranked 98th in fixed line broadband internet speeds, with a download speed of 29.85 Mbps, upload speed of 45.74 Mbps, and latency of 21 ms. The worldwide average download speed is 85.73 Mbps. Bangladesh was behind India (70th, 46.47 Mbps) and Sri Lanka (94th, 31.42 Mbps). Nepal (113th, 22.36 Mbps), the Maldives (117th, 21.56 Mbps), Bhutan (126th, 19.09 Mbps), Afghanistan (157th, 10.31 Mbps), and Pakistan lagged behind (159th with 10.10 Mbps) "The mobile download speed in the ranking is better than the BTRC standard," claimed a telecom official<sup>[\[76\]](#footnote-76)</sup>. The BTRC set the 4G download speed at 7 Mbps. Spectrum allotment is one of the lowest in the world in a nation with 16 crore mobile consumers, he added. Optical fibers of Nationwide Telecommunication Transmission Network are likewise subpar, he said. As the coronavirus pushed everything online, internet use skyrocketed, slowing down overall performance. "During the pandemic, mobile internet usage grew dramatically, which may have affected service," stated Brig Gen SM Farhad (retd), secretary general of the Association of Mobile Telecom Operators of Bangladesh (AMTOB).

**Figure 5.1: Bangladesh Internet speed compare with Global**

[Bangladesh Internet speed compare with Global](../assets/image21.jpg)

**Source:**<sup>[\[77\]](#footnote-77)</sup> "Google Image Result for [Https://Www.Tbsnews.Net/Sites/Default/Files/Styles/Infograph/Public/Images/2020/09/03/Graphics-01_0.Jpg?itok=57COn0I2×tamp=1599155896](Https://Www.Tbsnews.Net/Sites/Default/Files/Styles/Infograph/Public/Images/2020/09/03/Graphics-01_0.Jpg?itok=57COn0I2&timestamp=1599155896)."

**Figure 5.2: Ranking of internet speed**

[Ranking of internet speed](../assets/image22.jpg)

**Source<sup>[\[78\]](#footnote-78)</sup>:** Shibli, Abdullah. "Mobile Data Speed: Bangladesh Only Ahead of Afghanistan in South Asia | The Daily Star." The Daily Star. <www.thedailystar.net>, October 27, 2020.

The rudimentary need of this industrialization is the communication and use of the internet. Furthermore, the cost of the internet in Bangladesh is horrific compared to other neighboring countries. The communication infrastructure is not suitable for running any heavy machinery. On the other hand, the country's power supply and energy cost do not support simplifying any latest technological machinery. Bangladesh still has no relevant structural support to engage the new industrial revolution.

Nevertheless, the reality is 4IR is not following a pattern of engaging one region and leaving out others. Because the primary product of this revolutionary idea is humans. The 163 million people of Bangladesh are a perfect market for data collecting algorithms and advanced machinery. We are bounded with AI technologies and IoT products but at a meager ratio. However, in this industrialization, we are indeed engaging in any way. Whether a producer or product, we are deeply in this grant event of humanity. The other structural gaps are secular stagnation in the society and structure. The huge gap between social classes activates a new phenomenon of creating an entirely new social network. The new installation does not emphasize the position of the underclass. This unrecognized population will play a significant role in the future.
