## \***\*5.9 SECURITY CHALLENGES\*\***

When discussing new social and economic developments, security is a fundamental consideration. If we fail to protect our community, our achievements are of little significance. Bangladesh's present security crisis is reshaping its dimensions in a new way. Recent changes to social media and the internet have disrupted the harmony of Bangladeshi society, which has been in place for more than a century. There is a lack of familiarity in Bangladeshi social and cultural institutions with this unexpected social shift. Since November 2020 to November 2021, Bangladesh has received 17,280 reports of cyber harassment. The security situation in Bangladesh has never seen anything like this before. As a primary weapon in the battle against this kind of issue, the same technologically sophisticated components are used. In this industry, the gap in cyber security is quite active. Bangladesh isn't doing well when it comes to computer security. However, a law addressing cyber security has already been issued by the government. Many cyber security risks are reported to the government on a regular basis; thus, the government is well aware of this area. Using powerful machine learning and algorithms, these dangers and security issues are fully dependent. Since our personal information has been disseminated widely, we are nothing more than a byproduct of any given operation. The true problem arises when the federal government fails to provide enough resources to this area. As a country, Bangladesh is still plagued by a lack of traditional security, as well as a number of cyber security risks. Consequently, the whole security situation in Bangladesh was thrown into disarray. In addition to traditional security personnel, they are also involved in these emerging security concerns. Metropolis and metropolitan regions gain considerable help and technological edge in tackling cyber security concerns. However, the rural section of Bangladesh is still dark in this particular area. Total understanding and societal acceptance of digital technology remain unrealistic for most rural Bangladesh. As a result, conventional cyber security is unable to effectively address and resolve security issues. The fourth industrial security tool, on the other hand, has not been adequately used by the Bangladeshi administrations. In this specific field, there have been many chances to be found. The following table provides a summary of the security holes and their likely consequences.

**Table 5.1: Security challenges and gaps**

| Security Gaps                           | Impacts                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Lack of surveillance                    | The surveillance system of Bangladesh is still in the process of evolving and engaging new support staff.                                                                                           |
| Shortage of advanced IoT and Robotics   | Another side of this 4th industrial revolution is the lack of technical equipment in the proper system. Bangladesh still depends on another developed country to get advanced 4th industrial tools. |
| Misunderstand with traditional security | Sometimes the authorities and community get puzzled with new security issues and a clash between traditional and cyber security.                                                                    |

**Source: Prepared by researcher**
